# WORDLE

Visit https://wordle-az1x.onrender.com to play the game. 

## What is it? 

Wordle is a popular web-based word game that has many visiters across the world. Players try to find a five-letter word in 6 attempts and the word changes each day, thus players can visit every day to solve a new word. Players enter a word as a guess and boxes that include letters change their color as feedback if that word is valid. they turn into green if a letter is in exact same place as word to be guessed, yellow if a letter is not in exact place but word includes that letter, or grey if word does not include that letter. This project is the clone of the original game. 

## How it is implemented 

The logic of the game created works same as the original one but there are some differences in terms of diplaying content. First of all, this is a static website which means that it only consists of HTML, CSS and Javascript, thus there is no backend and a database. It uses external APIs to get a random word and check if the word that user enters exists or not. Since they are async processes, it takes some time to get response and move on. The game offers two languages that are english and turkish. Since I could not find a decent API to work with turkish words, I had to get all the words from an onlined ictionary and store them in a js file. The advantage of this solution is that it is so fast to interact with data since it does not require any async process. However, it has downsides also. There are so many outdated words that nobody uses in their daily life anymore which makes it so hard to guess the word. Another downside is that this is not an elegant solution since all the words are stored in a file as a big chunk. 

## How it works 

When the player visits for the first time, he/she gets asked to select a language. Turkish will be selected as a default language if selection is dismissed. Players will never get asked to select a language again unless they clear their browsing data because the information of which language is used is stored in local storage. Everytime they clear the data, they need to select a language again. If turkish is selected, no async process will be done. If english is selected, then an external API is used to get a random word and user has to wait until the word is retrieved. A modal is shown during the process indicating that player needs to wait a bit. Game starts after that process. Players have 6 attempts to win. If they enter something that is shorter than 5 letters, an alert message is shown. If they enter a word that does not exist, same alert is shown again. For english, an external API is used to check whether the word exists or not. A message is shown during the process indicating that the word entered is being checked. If the word entered is valid, color of boxes changes as feedback. If players can find the word in less than or equal to 6 attempts, they win. Otherwise, they lose. A message is displayed indicating whether they win or lose. Once the game is over, they can no longer interact game components. 
